# Webpack, where am I? (Pt 2)

I didn't go the babel route in the end, instead I looked a bit further
into outputs and `file-loader`.

As I was saying before your entry controller, in my case `index.js`,
isn't running in node instead it runs in an environment that conforms to
the CommonJS standards, which means that it has access to some
pre-defined methods (`require` being one of them) that Webpack conform to
and look for in your code when it builds.

This also means that you can require npm packages from your controller
as well, as long as their code conforms to CommonJS, which is a
bit confusing. 

The next thing to know is that `webpack.config.js` *is* running in node.
Obviously Webpack doesn't actually build the config file into your
project and it uses node to do the building. You can `require` node
modules in the config file to add extra functionality to the build.

The other thing to know is this. You can import and use npm modules that
use node as long as they're just dev dependencies, meaning things that
get used in your config file.

### Anyway

The `file-loader` module is very important because it enables webpack to
manage non-javascript files. So this means CSS, images, svgs and, for me
most importantly, markdown files.

Now I don't actually have to build the markdown files into my project. I
think I could configure `webpack.config.js` to use the `markdown` package
to convert those markdown files into seperate HTML files instead. But
that would come with it's own problems, mainly I want to be able to upload
the markdown files to my bucket without having to build the whole project
locally every time. Also I think loading pages on the s3 would become
ugly seeing as I won't just be loading `index.html`.

### So anyway, file-loader

...has a lot of extra options and some of them let you choose exactly
where you want you files to go when they're built. Here's the
configuration I ended up with:

```js
{
  test: /\.md$/,
  loader: 'file-loader',
  options: { 
    name: '[name].[ext]',
    outputPath: (filename, resPath) => {
      if(/posts/.test(resPath)) {
        return 'posts/' + filename
      }
      if(/design-patterns/.test(resPath)) {
        return 'design-patterns/' + filename
      }
      return '/' + filename
    }
  },
}
```

- `test` looks for all the files with a '.md' extension, project wide,
  meaning it ignores folder names.
- `options.name` decides what the output name of the markdown file will
  be. There are loads of options `file-loader` provides for this, you just
  have to name them inside [brackets]. I think it uses `[hash]` by
  default but here I want the filenames to stay the same so I've used
  `[name].[ext]`.
- `options.outputPath` This is the important part, you can just assign a
  string to `outputPath` to tell it exactly what folder to put all the
  markdown files in but you can also use a function which passes the
  `filename` (decided on by the previous `name` option), and `resPath`
  which is the full path to the file.
