# How I stopped worrying and learned to love Vim

I've been using Vim for about 6 months now and it's finally starting to
sink in for me. It's been a long time I'm fully aware of that. I was so
determined to 'get it' even though I actually think it doesn't quite
suite the way that I think.

I found much of the movement really difficult to pick up and to be honest
I actually only found that I could drop VSCode and go totally Vim once I
installed Neo Vim and was able to use the mouse, if only just a little
bit.

Often if I'm working on something difficult it takes just that little bit
too much brain power to think '26k' to go 26 lines up from my current
position then 'f{' to go to the first open curly brace on the line then
'V%' to find the closing brace while making sure I'm selecting whole lines 
then 'd' to delete it all then move somewhere else to paste it.

By the time I was done I'd forgotten what I was moving the function for.
Being able to just select it with the mouse and scroll to the other
position in the file I wanted to go was a relief and as soon as I'd done
that I started to really enjoy using Vim and finding out all it's little
features and commands.

I think I had to realise what Vim's good for and what it isn't. Vim is
*great* for text editing. Like really really great. Nothing else will do
anymore I have to have the Vim commands; like 'vat' for selecting HTML
tags or ctrl-o for jumping back to a previous position in any file or
'A' for going to the end of a line and into insert mode, or 'C' for deleting
everything on the line up to your cursor and going to insert mode or 'ci"' 
for changing the contents of double-quotes even when you're not inside
them or the marks feature, or macros, or 'S' for deleting the whole line
and entering insert mode with the correct indentation.

These are all, to me now, indespensible features that Vim provides
out-of-the-box, no plugins involved or needed.

But there are some things Vim is *aweful* at, or at least it takes a lot
more know-how to get used to. One of these things is folder navigation for 
which Vim is god-aweful. This is a standard feature that many IDE
text-editors will offer without any bother at all, and with them comes
another thing that Vim is not so good at: file searching and in-file
searching.

To be fair Vim does offer some in-file searching in the form of a weird
'copen' command that I often use and still don't really understand. You
can type:

```
:vim somestuff src/**/*.js | copen
```

To get a nice list of js files in the 'src' folder in a seperate split 
that all contain the term 'somestuff'. I've no idea why you have to write
'vim' first or what pipe 'copen' means and it seems pretty convoluted but
other than that it works pretty much like VSCode's shift-f command.

Folder navigation is another issue all-together. Vim does have a
navigator of sorts but it's pretty rudimentary and I can't remember how
you even work it seeing as everwhere I read about this issue on the
internet just says use the [NerdTree
Plugin](https://github.com/preservim/nerdtree), and so that's what I do.

If you've had even a cursory investigation into Vim you'll know that
searching for a term in a single file is amazing and still bounds ahead of 
any IDE out there but searching for actual files and opening them is
terrible. You can use the command mode by putting:

```
:n path/to/my/deeply/nested/filewithahugename/kill/me/now.js
```

Or you can install [Fuzzy Finder](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) and
have you're experience go from terrible to amazeballz in one fell swoop.
FZF is a little more complicated than a normal plugin install but believe
me it's worth it.

The last thing I want to bellyache about is colors. Oh Vim colorscheme
how I hate you and oh how long I've spent tinkering and wasting my time 
trying to make you obey me and you still wont.

I'm still not totally happy with the colors in my version of vim. First
there was normal vim and the colors where harsh and horrible which I
eventually fixed by doing a whole frickin' terminal switch (back in the
dark days when I was using Arch Linux) then the syntax highlighting was
mostly just white, white tag names with white attributes, and white
function names with white arguments. Everytime I tried a different theme
it would change the colors but not the syntax selections so all the white
stuff might turn into *all* orange or yellow.

Horrible problem, and stupid too, like a problem you feel stupid for
spending too much time on. In the end I found a theme called
[Gruvbox](https://github.com/morhetz/gruvbox) which got me closest to 
being happy about it and now I just ignore the minor problems I still
have... like the search term color is bright yellow! So distracting.
