# Webpack, where am I?

I was a little confused by [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) while
making this project. Mainly becuase it becomes a bit difficult to
understand what environment you're actaully writing in.

I have access to a node_modules folder and can install things with npm
but if I try to use node's in-build `fs` module the build breaks.

I can deploy my project from dist/ to an s3 bucket but if I try to simply
open dist/index.html in my browser I get nothing!

### What on earth is going on?

Well, first off index.html would have opened but I was using a `fetch`
function to grab the contents of the markdown files that make the posts
in this project. But that should be fine right? `fetch` is included in
client-side js, you can find it at
[mdn](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API/Using_Fetch)
so it should work in the browser right?

`fetch` does work in the browser but it's only designed to work over
http. So on s3 it's fine because all the bucket's contents are served
over http but on my computer they're not, `fetch` would have to get the
files from `file://` which it doesn't support.

### Obviously.

So the next thing I thought was, if I can't use `fetch` why not use `fs`
to grab the file contents *before* we get to the browser so that they're
loaded into a variable somewhere and then converted each time I want to
render them.

This is when I realised that Webpack doesn't automatically convert all
your code from node to client-side. All it does natively (well, I say *all*) is
bundle your scripts into a flat distribution folder. The plugins you give
it, like `file-loader` and `style-loader`, deal with individual
syntax and file type conversions.

When your working in your index.js code or any other part of your working
code you're not in a node environment. You're in a sort of Webpack javascript
environment where you have access to things that look like node, like `import`
and `export` but not things that won't work in the frontent (like `fs`).

When you're working in `webpack.config.js` on the other hand, you *are* in
node and so you can `require('path')` or require npm packages.

If you want to work in a node-like environment you have to extend Webpack
with plugins.

So maybe the next step is `babel`?
